#summary This page is a step-by-step guide to release spring-contributions

= Introduction =

The release is performed to the Sonatype OSS Maven repository - which can push artifacts to Maven central (see https://docs.sonatype.org/display/Repository/Sonatype+OSS+Maven+Repository+Usage+Guide).

= Prerequisites = 

 * JDK 5+ is installed on your command line path.
 * Subversion 1.5+ is installed on your command line path. 
 * Maven 2.2.1+ is installed on your command line path.
 * A GPG client is installed on your command line path. For more information, please refer to http://www.gnupg.org/.
 * You have created your GPG keys and distributed your public key to hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net/. For more information, please refer to How To Generate PGP Signatures With Maven.
 * Add the following servers to your Maven settings.xml: 
{{{
    <server>
      <id>sonatype-nexus-snapshots</id>
      <username>derkoe</username>
      <password>password</password>
    </server>
    <server>
      <id>sonatype-nexus-staging</id>
      <username>derkoe</username>
      <password>password</password>
    </server>
}}}

= Publish Snapshots =

To publish a snapshot, simply run (on a checked out SNAPSHOT version):
{{{
$ mvn clean deploy
}}}

= Stage a release =

Note: Please be sure that gpg is on your PATH.

First you need to prepare a release:
{{{
$ mvn release:clean
$ mvn release:prepare
}}}
Note: Preparing the release will create the new tag in SVN, automatically checking in on your behalf.

Then stage the release:
{{{
$ mvn release:perform
}}}

Maven will checkout the tag you just prepared, then build and deploy it into Nexus staging repository.

= Release it to Maven Central =

 # Go to https://oss.sonatype.org/
 # Login as derkoe
 # Select "Staging Repositories"
 # You should find your previously built artifacts here
 # Select your build and click "Close" - this prompts for a comment
 # Select your build and click "Release" - this prompts for a comment as well

If you want to drop the release select it and click "Drop".